---
published: true
title: Windows 10 Day 1
layout: post
---


       I woke up around 8 in the morning. Straight after I forced-installed windows 10 onto my machine. It took a couple of tries(win7 kept on wanting to update). But soon, I was ready to go.  I really got into windows 10 around 10.  

      Just a note, I have been a win10 insider since September of last year, and I contributed by reporting bugs, and asking for small features that should be added to the OS. While the OS has improved in stability, it still has a couple of bugs that I reported(Microsoft, I'm pointing at you...).  But when the project started, it was literally windows 8.1 with a start menu(which is a large changed in itself that probably took a long time to program) and better window management. It has developed a lot since then, and feels more like a community developed operating system in comparison to win8 or especially any of the previously operating systems. Anyways, onto the real review....


    For starters, lets talk about the transfer process as I expect it to be the majority of Microsoft's user base. It was mostly smooth, with no issues with the transfer process itself. But win7 seemed to prioritize its own updates, and pretty much everything else more than the upgrade process itself(with the machine restarting for win7 updates just as the transfer process starts). All my files transferred over, and the majority of my programs transferred over. The stock win7 games didn't come over(I must be the only one who uses them). All the apps that were installed in win7 were working fine(there weren't many apps in the first place, just a couple of browsers and games). One of the apps was the windows 2000 pinball space game, and 15 years later, it's still supported in win10. Considering the extremely rapid development of win10, I believe that it's mainly a big reskin, with the core of win8.1 still mostly the same.  So overall, a very good transition process. 

    Now for the experience of using the operating systems. Just a note, I want people to know that this operating system has the 2nd fastest development process Microsoft has ever released(besides windows 2000-windows xp). So there are going to be bugs. But nonetheless, I shall report every issue that I have had so far(so take it with a grain of salt). 

    The machine is extremely slow to boot(even though it was a Hard Drive, windows 7 booted in about a minute), taking close to 4 minutes. But its not because of bios or loading time from what I could tell, it seems to be a software glitch causing the machine to delay the sign-in menu. But once you get in, it's very snappy, and all animations are smooth(this machine is a 2011 elitebook, with the top of line CPU in it, since moors law has slowed very dramatically since then its the CPU equal to a top of line Dell XPS 13). But while everything is smooth, there are a lot of glitches in the appearance. Then, there is the elephant in the room, the machine either 0% disk usage or 99% disk usage. And I really hear the drive spinning up, so its an accurate measurement. But the machine doesn't  tell me where all disk usage is coming from.  This is an issue for me, since I edit videos, and having the videos boggle because of disk usage, it makes the OS un usable.  T

     Now that we have all the major issues out of the way, we can focus on whats just a little weird, but not too bothersome. There are links in the search men(more on that in a moment) that don't go anywhere. There are two settings panels which do mostly the same stuff. My custom boot logo no longer works in win10. It does some weird formatting with older applications.  The Edge browser doesn't like using a lot of resources to the point where it boggles down when I am only using 10% CPU usage. You need a Microsoft account to use Cortana. And last of all the interface might alienate win8 users with the extremely small icons. 

     Finally, we can get to the good stuff...

     First, everything is snappy, even with a Hard Drive. Older application support is great. The interface is a needed upgrade. Cortana is pretty sweet, and an excellent reminder. The search bar has returned, and now includes results from the web. Power management is more efficient. You can customize the OS to be more win7 like(more desktop oriented) or more win8 like(more tablet or 2in1 oriented). The edge browser is great. The store does have quite a few great apps. 3D builder is cool because its basically drivers and a model viewer for a 3D printer built right into the OS(a nice touch). Multitasking is much better, with the ability to split into quad windows(while not quite as useful on my 12in laptop, it was great on my desktop). The notifications center is great, especially when I have all my email profiles connected to it. Antivirus built in the OS is much less intrusive about notifications against avast or avg. While I never missed it, the comeback of the start menu is great.  Driver support is awesome for a brand new OS. and Sleeping/resuming is quite a bit snappier. 

     So, you might have notice how the cons section is larger than the pros section. Don't fear, there are quite a lot more pros about the OS I haven't even mention. Also it is a brand new OS, and should be expected to have a couple of bugs. The real rollout of win10 is coming out late August, after all the complaints from the Early Adopters have been dealt with. And there are bound to be bugs with a launch this big. So don't fear, the bug fixes will be here. 

    So, its conclusion time. Overall, I think its an excellent upgrade. I can handle a couple of bugs here and there. I love the cutting edge. I love the new appearance of the OS. The new features are great. I loved the OS so much, I'll be putting it on my workstation laptop, not just my school laptop.  

    But, I don't think its for everybody. Mission critical people need extreme stability. Your average consumer won't know how to fix some of the bugs in the OS. A lot of people aren't ready to exit their comfort zone.   So its up to you. However, I suggest you upgrade after 5-6 months from now, because most of the issues will be gone and you still get the upgrade free. By then.. it might just be worth it. 

